# Modelling-COVID-in-ages-structured-populations
The proposed project looked at adapting existing epidemic models of COVID-19 in age-structured populations to incorporate relationships between competing strains with different levels of infectivity and lethality. A prediction made on these interactions can help predict their relative fitness in different epidemiological contexts. In doing so, I considered different modelling assumptions, parameter values and compartment interactions. I focused on modelling the host population and ignored the population dynamics of the pathogen, looking at compartmentalised models for infectious disease.

The final age-structured population model that I developed, incorporated three age brackets within the population (juveniles, adults and seniors). Analysis showed that the adult age generation had great importance for mitigating transmission due to being the “sandwich” generation, caring for both the elderly and infants. Upon modelling this demographic, there was an increased transmission parameter between juveniles/adults and seniors/adults, with an almost negligible transmission parameter between juveniles/seniors. In order to combat this increased risk of susceptibility of infection, the government implemented policies and industry emergency policy measures to counter family economic crises in this situation. This was particularly prevalent for vulnerable workers and those with unpredictable job outcomes, who are less able to comply with policies that allow social distancing.

Though the project models explored are motivated by COVID, part of the project is hypothetical. I used a selection of fixed parameters corresponding to official data and by arbitrary choice, as well as working with parameters taking a range of values (both arbitrary or corresponding to the uncertainty we have with COVID). Further developments of the models described are endless, yet I would focus on furthering the parameters and age groups for the structured models, as well as looking into vaccine immunity. For vaccination, I ignored any delay of effect of vaccination and multiple doses but could develop the models by splitting the effect of the vaccination further into components. This is done by introducing the compartments for different level of protection from each strain with reduced risk of infection, reduced risk of hospitalisation/death and reduced risk of spread.
